Today we're talking about dummy variables.
As you can see here I've copied the top five rows of our data set and have moved the profit column to
the left.
So basically the information that we have in our data is the profit of each company or of each startup
.
Then the R&D spend the admins spend the marketing spend So those three are expenses that the company
incurred and then the state in which it operates either in New York or California.
And as you recall the challenge that we're faced with is that the venture capitalist Fund wants to see
if there's any correlations between profit and the months that have been spent on different expenses
R&D admin and marketing and also with on which in which stage the company operates.
Is there a correlation between profit and all these variables and how would you go about creating a
model to understand how knowing R&D spend admin and marketing and stay to predict profit and so therefore
profit is our dependent variable and the rest the blue ones are all independent variables.
And what we need to do is build a linear regression.
So let's go ahead and get started as we would with multiple inner aggression we would start by saying
Y which is profit is equal to what.
What does it equal to.
Well first of all there is a constant.
In this case it's been zero and I've put it under the profit column just because I needed to fit it
somewhere.
And then we would start adding on these variables into our equation.
So then we've got the Bhiwani coefficient times the X-1 variable which is R&D spend in this case and
X-1 is actually the amount the dollar amount that you see in the R&D column.
Then you've got the admin variable which is x 2.
It's got a collection of BE2 once again adman's or in this case X2 is going to be the dollar amount
you see in the admin column.
Then you've got the marketing spend X 3 which will be the dollar amount you see in the marketing column
.
And then you've got the state variable.
And here when we get here we're questioning what should we place in our equation for the state column
because we don't actually have a number we don't have a dollar value or any other type of number to
add into our equation we can just add a word into the equation.
And the thing here is that the state is actually a categorical variable so we talked about types of
variables before and we understood that there's categorical variables and there's numeric variables
.
Well in this case state is a categorical variable and therefore we can add it to our equation we need
to do something about this situation and the approach that you need to take when you face categorical
variables and regression models is you need to create dummy variables.
Let's see how we we can do that.
First you need to go through your column and find all the different categories you have.
So in this case we have two categories in all of our data there's only two categories.
New York and California.
And they are essentially categories so basically they're categorizing Aldara into two classes.
One is companies in New York.
Another one is companies in California in a very similar way we could have had a different column them
sort of stated could have been company size for instance could have been small medium and large and
that would have classified our companies into three different classes and so on so you can have any
type of categories.
In this case it's the state in which they operate.
So for every single category that you followed you need to create a new column for New York to create
a column called New-Yorker for color for immigrants create a calm California so we were kind of expanding
our data set and adding some additional columns into it.
And how do we populate the column.
So this is the fun part to populate these columns.
The start of the New York column and you find all of your rows where state actually says New York and
you need to for those Rosing to put a 1 in the your column and then in California for all the rows that
say California.
Basically for all the rows that don't say new or whatever else they say you just put a zero and then
for California for the column California you do the same thing.
Wherever a row says California in the state column you place a one in the California column and for
any other values in the state column you place a zero in the California column.
And so you end up with a daughter set like this.
And these two new columns are called dummy variables and building your regression model from here is
very simple.
All you have to do is use the New York column and you're going to be using it instead of states you're
not going to be using state anymore and basically you add a variable which is before times D1 and D1
in this case is your dummy variable for New York and you don't use the California column either.
So as you can see here all the information in our data is preserved.
If we just stick to the one New York column because you can tell right away if one is a one then it's
a company that works and it operates in New York.
If one is a zero it's a company that operates in California.
So we didn't lose any information by including only the New York call.
And we will actually talk more about why you should never include all of your dummy variable columns
in your regression model.
We'll talk more about that in the next tutorial when we're talking about the dummy variable trap.
But for now I would like to discuss two things so first of all the New York column or all of the dummy
variables they work as switches.
In this case let's look at the New York column which we're including in our regression.
It works like a light switch so if it's a one then you know that this company is in New York.
If it's a zero sold off in this case in the case of the picture then you know that the company doesn't
work in New York.
And so then you go.
Obviously it works in California because you only have two options so the dummy variables work like
light switches and that's why they're ones and zeros and they don't need any other values in them.
And the second thing is that when you look at this approach it might seem biased.
So we are including a variable for New York and there's a coefficient for.
So we basically have this benefit of having a coefficient in our equation for New York which is before
but for California there's no coefficient because when D-1 is 0 that whole loss part of the equation
becomes zero and there's no benefit of a coefficient in our equation for California.
Might seem biased at first but in reality that's not the case because the way regression models work
is that they will take by default that state or that variable that dummy variable that you have not
included will become the default situation for this regression model.
So basically what that means is that the coefficient for California is going to be included in the constant
and be zero.
And by default when D-1 is equal to zero this whole equation will turn into an equation you can think
of it as it will turn into equation for California.
But then when Diwan becomes one you're adding before which is once again like this is a very basic explanation
but you're adding a coefficient which is the difference between New York and California.
So.
So basically you're altering from California to New York by flipping this light switch if it's on off
then kind of default state and the whole equation is working for California.
If it's on on then by adding that before you're altering the equation from the default state of California
to New York.
So that's a intuitive way to think of dummy variables so there's nothing wrong with the fact that we're
only including one.
And once again in the next tutorial We'll talk more about why it is a bad idea to include both dummy
variables.
Look for the next time.
Until then happy analyzing